# Project Log
Date: 15th October 2017

## Items:

This project, as well as being used for just creating a RAW cloud based photo editor has a practical application in the Content Management System market, as an image processing server.

Currently, Image Magick is commonly used for processing images, but the disadvantages of using ImageMagick is that it cannot support directly the RAW file format family. Furthermore, Image Magick is only an executable, and to access it one needs to use various APIs, each available for various different languages.

Using a JSON based system for interacting with our server works better within the web world, hiding the system level calls with a higher level representation (that is, JSON).

### Steps to improve our design:

- Rather than encorporating OpenStack Shift within our design, file storage should not be directly considered within our rendering engine.

- Instead, this should be a separate component.

- We can just supply a URL of the RAW image, which is then downloaded onto the render server, cached, and then the image is rendered.

- All the image uploading and fetching can instead be done separately, making our server loosely coupled with the storage backend (a useful feature).

- While we will end up using OpenStack Swift, others might just want to use Nginx/Apache or AWS S3, as examples.

- Within a CMS, REST would be used, but in practice, it might be better to abstract that away and provide several different possible interfaces (web socket, socket io and REST).
