# Project Log 17th Jan
This log contains the updates from the Christmas break, outlining changes made, and what still needs to be done.

## Design Report
A first draft has been made, with marks coming back soon on improvements that I can make.

There are still a few things needed to be done, namely:

- [] \usepackage{savetrees}
- [] Add UI images 
- [] Rewrite some parts to make them more clear.
- [] Base64 vs File for preview
Deadline is next week, so progress is still needed to be made.

## Software
### Improvements Made
Docker has been implemented, to make deploying the application easier (requiring only one command with docker compose rather
than having to deploy everything in separate terminals). Containers need to be tidied though.

The Web Services Django project is created, and the basic interface and image picker has been created.

Within the web editor, the code has been greatly tidied, using multiple files and using jQuery. The sidebar now loads properly
based on the $.load() method, which greatly improves the security and maintainability of the application. 

Within the render server, the server code for white balance correction has been added using RGB gains (rather than Lightroom's method).
This still needs testing/integrating into the server.

### Improvements to Make
#### Web Services Django Project
- [] Deploy to MySQL/MariaDB
- [] Replace r'/*' with '' in the URLs to fix a problem.
- [] More AJAX requests to be added for listing images and albums
- [] HTML/CSS/JS for the image list page.
- [] Add version control service using the database for each image.
#### Web Editor
- [] Tidy up/improve the binding code, allowing fields to be bound with variables in memory.
- [] Canvas preview code for previewing images.
- [] Code for zooming images in and out using the canvas.
- [] Animations for the sidebar load/unload
- [] Add fields corresponding to the properties within the system.
#### Render Server
- [] Test differences between using BufferedImage vs Byte Arrays for convolve op, test parallel vs non-parallel and see which one is best.
- [] Implement Colour Attenuation Prior Haze Removal, as a new advanced feature.
- [] Implement Gamma Correction on the server.
- [] Improve the speed of the Adams Processor
- [] Add export functionality to file (via upload).
- [] Reduce the size of the previews (using DCRAW flags)
- [] Add version control (along with the web services project), so changes can be reverted. Loaded in via AJAX.
- [] Highlights and Shadows adjustments (look at Darktable's implementation for this).
