# Project Plan
Date: 23rd October 2017

## Items
### Gaussian Blur properly implemented
#### Floating Point Issues
This took a while to implement. The built-in Convolve Op generates a Kernel from floating point numbers. As a result
normalising is quite difficult. 

To get around this, I multiplied by a larger number (1000) in the double format, then cast to float, then divided, to ensure that we
retrieved the value with minimal loss.

This seems to work, but it's not ideal. In the future, it might be better to implement our own Convolution Operation, to get
around this issue, if it crops up in other operations. This would also involve creating our own custom Kernel object which uses
doubles instead.

#### Image Border during Convolution
Our current implementation ignores the image border, and just leaves a 1px black border. Using the alternative 'NO_OP' feature,
causes the image to appear blocky, as if applying gaussian, everything but the border will be blurred.

A better method is one that we learnt in Image Processing in Year 2, where we convolve by mirroring.

### TIFF reading/writing
This proved tricky with the built in TIFF functionality. However, this was solved by using TwelveMonkeys, which is a set of
plugins for Java, to allow reading of TIFF files, and also writing.

### Mean Filter
We had a problem with this where dividing 1 / k (where k is the kernel size squared), as using the floating point kernel, it would
change to be 0 for each kernel cell. Therefore, the convolution operation wouldn't complete. As a result, a new kernel and
convolution system is needed.

### New Convolution Operation
As the built-in Java convolution doesn't work well for our task, we have re-engineered the algorithm by writing our own custom 
convolution routines to make it work. Currently, the system is **single threaded**, so it's very slow, but this can be improved by adding more threads in a fork and join approach.

We had to also create a new Kernel for this, to utilise double precision floating point numbers, rather than single precision, so that the results for the Gaussian functions yield useful values. This does increase memory usage, but it
produces better quality images in terms of accuracy (so therefore, we can utilize higher kernel sizes).

Still todo: multithreading on the convolution operation (we can probably just create new threads, and run them all).

### Mean Filter (second attempt)
Once we created our custom Convolution Operation, this works well. It turns out, the error from before was partly caused by
an incorrect declaration, so it was dividing as an integer rather than as a double, but the accuracy of the new system does
allow for higher precision when it comes to far higher kernel sizes, if we decide to use them.
